Why I Want to Be a Doctor? (500 words)
Eleanor Roosevelt famously opined “if anyone were to ask me what I want out of life I would say—the opportunity for doing something useful, for in no other way, I am convinced, can true happiness be obtained.” These words have always struck a chord with me and have guided my thoughts and actions throughout my entire life. Originally, it was not my idea to pursue a medical career, as my parents urged me down that path. They have always wanted my sister and I to go to medical school and become successful physicians. When I reached high school, however,  started to change.
My parents decided to let me choose  my own career path and pursue my own interests They encouraged me to explore a variety of subjects in high school in order to find out what truly interested me. My sister chose to be an engineer because math was always her favorite. However, it seemed that no class was the right fit for me. I tried accounting, investments, English, math, and history but none of them appealed to me. When I took biology, and then chemistry, I realized that science truly fascinated me. I loved all things about science, from the cardiovascular system, to human anatomy to the structure of the atom. The passion I had for it seemed to only increase with each passing day. I decided to apply my love for science to a profession in which I believe I could make a difference in the world with: the medical field.
During high school, I volunteered at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, New York. It was an incredible experience where I got to meet and interact with a vast array of patients, even some who were terminally ill. I had the opportunity to see how a hospital operates and what the fast-paced environment was like. Although the hospital was constantly busy, the doctors always managed to keep a smile on their faces and treat patients in a humane manner. Some even shared stories about their “miracle patients,” detailing the life or death decisions they had to make. Despite the stress that entails any medical profession, these physicians nonetheless conveyed to me how rewarding the medical field could be. In addition, my experiences with the patients left an indelible mark on me, as each patient had their own  unique and sometimes heart-wrenching story.
Becoming a doctor gradually became something I was truly passionate about and wanted to become because I saw how much happiness they cultivated in patients. Later, I shadowed two doctors who really solidified my interest in and fomented my passion for becoming a doctor. I witnessed firsthand what doctors did on a quotidian basis and how much they really contributed to the welfare of society. They literally made the world a better place just by doing their jobs. Through experiences I have had, I can think of no other profession that is so fulfilling and rewarding as that of a doctor. At the end, I guess my parents were right about me.