Goetia - Guide to summon demon(500 words)
The Lesser Key of Solomon is an anonymous grimoire on demonology. It was compiled in the mid-17th century, mostly from materials originating from the centuries previous. It’s composed of five books: The Ars Goetia, Ars Theurgia-Goetia, Ars Paulina, Ars Almadel, and Ars Notoria.
Goetia is a practice that includes the conjuration of demons. The edition titled The Book of the Goetia of Solomon the King was edited and published by Aleister Crowley in 1904.
Crowley toys with the reader by sardonically positioning Goetia as a psychological exercise. But what is implied by this is the relationship between mind and matter is much more complicated than reductionist materialism would assume:
I am not concerned to deny the objective reality of all “magical” phenomena; if they are illusions, they are at least as real as many unquestioned facts of daily life; and… they are at least evidence of some cause.
Now, this fact is our base. What is the cause of my illusion of seeing a spirit in the triangle of Art?
Every smatterer, every expert in psychology, will answer: “That cause lies in your brain.”
That is, summoning ‘demon powers,’ Crowley says, involves uncovering or fostering related abilities in oneself through the exercise:
If, then, I say, with Solomon:
“The Spirit Cimieries teaches logic,” what I mean is:
“Those portions of my brain which subserve the logical faculty may be stimulated and developed by following out the processes called ‘The Invocation of Cimieries.”
Crowley’s interpretation of Goetia is also consistent with his definition of magic:
Magic is the Highest, most Absolute, and most Divine Knowledge of Natural Philosophy, advanced in its works and wonderful operations by a right understanding of the inward and occult virtue of things; so that true Agents being applied to proper Patients, strange and admirable effects will thereby be produced. Whence magicians are profound and diligent searchers into Nature; they, because of their skill, know how to anticipate an effort, the which to the vulgar shall seem to be a miracle.
Given this, the powers of the 72 demons described in The Book of the Goetia of Solomon the King can be said to generally reflect the desires of people living between the dates pertaining to the earliest source materials (during the Middle Ages) to the early 20th century when the Crowley edition was published. Or else, they may simply be the obsessions of those who have written these creatures into being.
I’ve gone through the descriptions of the 72 demons in The Book of the Goetia of Solomon the King and noted each of their powers whilst also respecting nuanced differences between them. I’ve added the total occurrences of powers beside their first instance and included some notes:
Now, we can choose to lose some nuance and combine related powers thereby creating categories. Also, these categories will be named not according to the demon power but to the desired outcome. These are:
Earthly knowledge: I’ve combined “Teaches liberal arts” with “Teaches sciences,” “Teaches astronomy,” “Teaches arts,” “Teaches philosophy,” “Teaches about plants,” “Teaches rhetoric,” “Teaches logic,” “Teaches geometry,” “Teaches handcrafts,” “Teaches about birds,” “Teaches arithmetic,” “Teaches grammar,” “Teaches mensuration,” “Teaches ethics,” “Teaches about wood,” “Teaches about water,” “Teaches that the earth is,” “Teaches about the mind” and “Wisdom and knowledges of mechanical arts.” The total is now 61.
Enemies harmed: I’ve combined “Murders” with “Causes wounds and sores, and worms to breed in them,” “Causes blindness,” “Causes deafness,” “Causes lack of understanding,” “Causes diseases,” “Putrefies wounds or sores, causing worms to breed in them,” “Putrefies arrow wounds,” “Destroys temporal dignities,” “Destroys spiritual dignities,” “Binds men,” “Marks men,” “Sets cities, castles and great places on fire,” “Gives insanity,” “Gives stupidity,” “Destroys cities,” “Destroys dignities,” “Drowning,” “Murders with fire” and “Punishes the wicked.” The total is now 22.
Prosperity: I’ve combined “Discovers treasure” with “Opens treasure enchanted by magicians,” “Discovers treasure kept by spirits,” “Steals treasures out of King’s houses,” “Gives riches,” “Turns metals into gold,” “Turns metal into coins,” “Teaches about precious stones” and “Causes abundance.” The total is now 22.
Knowledge of the future: I’ve combined “Tells the future” with “Tells of how soldiers will meet.” The total is now 21.
Knowledge of the past: I’ve combined “Tells the past” with “Tells of souls that died in sin” and “Summons the dead to speak.” The total is now 20.
Divine knowledge: I’ve combined “Tells of divine things” with “Teaches astrology,” “Tells of anything,” “Teaches anything,” “Tells how angels fell,” “Teaches pyromancy,” “Teaches cheiromancy,” “Shows meaning and resolution of all questions” and “Teaches consecration.” The total is now 20.
Secret knowledge: I’ve combined “Discovers hidden things” with “Tells secret things,” “Tells secrets,” “Tells of secret council,” “Teaches secret arts,” “Discovers hidden things (not guarded by wicked spirits),” “Gives enemy’s desires, thoughts and actions,” “Shows visions of a person, anywhere in the world,” “Discovers witches,” “Discovers wizards” and “Discovers wickedness.” The total is now 20.
High social standing: I’ve combined “Gives dignities” with “Gives popularity,” “Reconciles friends,” “Gives dignity,” “Gives honour,” “Gives a good name,” “Conciliates friends and those in power,” “Conciliates friends,” “Restores lost dignities and honours” and “Makes one beloved of friends and foes.” The total is now 18.
Assistants: I’ve combined “Gives familiar” with “Is a familiar,” “Steals familiars from other magicians,” “Gives servants” with “Gives horses” and “Gives serpents.” The total is now 14.
Love: I’ve combined “Causes love” with “Causes women to love men,” “Causes love between friends and foes” and “Causes love from Lords and great persons.” The total is now 11.
Improved personal qualities: I’ve combined “Gives wit” with “Gives wisdom,” “Gives eloquence,” and “Gives boldness.” The total is now 10.
Natural disasters: I’ve combined “Causes stormy seas” with “Causes earthquakes,” “Causes lightning,” “Causes thunder,” “Causes wind,” “Causes storms,” “Causes great noises,” and “Causes trees to bend.” The total is now 9.
Glory in war: I’ve combined “Sends soldiers to battle” with “Guides ships with arms, armour, ammunition, etc.,” “Causes seas to appear full of ships,” “Overthrows stone walls,” “Builds towers and furnishes them with ammunition and weapons,” “Builds houses and high towers,” “Builds high towers, castles and cities, and furnishes them with armour etc.,” “Builds towers” and “Tells of wars.” The total is now 9.
Languages: I’ve combined “Gives languages” with “Gives animal languages” and “Gives water language.” The total is now 6.
Retrieval: I’ve combined “Discovers lost things,” “Returns runways” and “Returns thieves and their stolen goods.” The total is now 5.
Easy transport: I’ve combined “Transports men between countries” with “Transports men from one kingdom to another,” “Transports things” and “Moves the dead.” The total is now 5.
Strong health: I’ve combined “Cures diseases” with “Gives long life” and “Gives invincibility.” The total is now 4.
Shapeshifting: I’ve combined “Changes men into other shapes” with “Makes men birds.” The total is now 3.
Discord sown: I’ve combined “Creates feuds” with “Causes battles and contests” and “Causes hatred.” The total is now 3.
The categories and their values are now: Earthly knowledge (61), Enemies harmed (23), Prosperity (22), Knowledge of the future (21), Knowledge of the past (20), Divine knowledge (20), Secret knowledge (20), High social standing (18), Assistants (14), Love (11), Improved personal qualities (10), Natural disasters (9), Glory in war (9), Languages (6), Retrieval (5), Easy transport (5), Shapeshifting (3) and Discord sown (3).
Now, I’ll list the recurring powers and non-recurring powers without a clear category, along with their values: Invisibility (4), Protection (formerly “Protects magician from temptation of spirits”) (2), Those who stand still run (formerly “Makes those who stand still run”) (1), Nudity (formerly “Causes nudity”) (1), Barren womb (formerly “Makes women barren”) (1), Spirits (formerly “Gathers spirits”) (1), Lights on graves (formerly “Lights (seeming) candles on graves”) (1), Warm water (formerly “Warms waters”), Baths (formerly “Discovers baths), Mind control (formerly “Changes thoughts”) (1).
One must note the unavoidably subjective nature of these groupings. There are entire categories that could arguably be further grouped together. For example: One might interpret all natural disasters as being deployed with the desired outcome of enemies harmed. Moreover, certain demon powers could be said to belong to multiple categories. For example: While I’ve placed “Gives horses” in the “Assistant” category, it could also possibly be included in the “Glory in war” category. Finally, some arguments could be made for a remaining power to find its place in a given category. For example: “Gathers spirits” could possibly be placed in the “Assistants” category. And so on.
One of the most interesting parts of this exercise is noting these outliers — demon powers that appear only once and don’t easily find themselves grouped with others. One thought I had is these might reveal blindspots in my knowledge of Medieval Europe. For example: I have trouble identifying the possible contextual applications of “Makes women barren” and whether there’s a dominant reason for desiring this power. Is it to ensure an affair goes unnoticed? Is it to limit the number of children one has, perhaps, thereby limiting household poverty and hunger? Is it intended maliciously? Some clues might lie in the source texts.
Also, some of these outlier demon powers are downright curious, such as “Makes those who stand still run.” I wonder if this is meant metaphorically, for example, to get someone out of a rut or cure laziness. If it’s meant literally, what could it refer to?
Another thing I find interesting is that mind control is a power possessed by only one demon. Certainly, other powers, like “Causes love,” feature an element of mind control. However, I would have thought this more general power would be quite desirable to people.
But this assumption reveals my own lived experience, in which physical and digital spaces are veritable battle grounds where various powers — be they corporate or governmental — vie for attention, and through that, aim to influence people’s thoughts and behaviours. The tools they use range from pedestrian to arcane; from sexy fashion ads to psyops. We live in a democracy and market economy whereby citizens have political influence and purchasing power in a way that simply didn’t exist during the Middle Ages. As our world transforms, old power fantasies fade and new ones emerge—like positive public opinion or owning a successful enterprise. Naturally, mind control becomes appealing in instances when war mongering loses its place to trade globalisation.
These, and many more speculations can be made about how the demon powers in The Book of the Goetia of Solomon the King might rank differently or be grouped differently—or change entirely — according to today’s context. With modern educational systems, Google, Wikipedia, YouTube tutorials and all manner of e-course at our fingertips, the dominant category by far — “Earthly knowledge” — would likely lose rank. Easy access to this kind of knowledge no longer requires demonic assistance. You might say the same for “Languages,” though it seems I personally require supernatural-level assistance to learn German.