What is your goal?(500 words)
The police force is a very important branch of our society. It has a key role to play in maintaining peace and order. The police force also plays a major role in the protection of citizens from the many ills that could befall them, such as crime, traffic accidents, and so on.
When I was young, I was amazed at how well police officers carried out their work, and I have always wanted to be a police officer. Now that I am old enough to join the police force, there is no job I would rather do.
Being a law-abiding citizen of this country, I would love the chance to be involved in the enforcement of the law of the land. This would give me great personal satisfaction.
Another reason why I would like to be a police officer is that I love hands-on jobs and situations. I believe the work of the police force is an engaging job that would keep me on my toes and in touch with people on a daily basis. I believe this fact would suit me since I have a way with people.
I am also attracted to the prospect of becoming a police officer because of its dynamic nature. I believe many situations in which police officers are involved require a person who is flexible and willing to deal with varied situations in day-to-day police work.
I am a decisive and straightforward person. I believe this would be an added advantage if I became a police officer since police officers are required to make split-second decisions on life and death matters on a day-to-day basis.
One of the main reasons why I want to be a police officer is because I am a true Patriot. I love my country, and I would be privileged to serve in the police force, which plays a major role in protecting my beloved country. I would therefore give of my time and energy when serving as a police officer.
As a Patriot I would do anything to protect my country.  No one is above the law, not even friends and family.  There was one time I report one of my friend to the teacher because he break the law of my school.
I am very proud of what I have done.